---
create_date: 2022-12-01 23:15
tags: 
status: 未阅读 
aliases: null
notes: False
ZK: 
category: 
uid: 
---

**2022年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试**

**英语（全国甲卷）听力**

注意事项：

1. 答卷前，考生务必将自己的姓名、考生号、考场号、座位号填写在答题卡上。

2. 回答选择题时，选出每小题答案后，用铅笔把答题卡上对应题目的答案标号涂黑。如需改动，用橡皮擦干净后，再选涂其他答案标号。回答非选择题时，将答案写在答题卡上，写在本试卷上无效。

3. 考试结束后，将本试卷和答题卡一并交回。

**第一部分 听力（共两节，满分30分）**

   做题时，先将答案标在试卷上。录音内容结束后，你将有两分钟的时间将试卷上的答案转涂到答题卡上。

**2022 高考英语听力甲卷录音**音频：00:0025:28合集#高考听力29个

第一节 （共5小题；每小题1.5分，满分7.5分）

听下面5段对话。每段对话后有一个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听完每段对话后，你都有10秒钟的时间来回答有关小题和阅读下一小题。每段对话仅读一遍。

1.What does the man want to do? 

 A. Have breakfast. 

 B.Take a walk. 

 C.Call his office. 

2. What was George doing last night? 

 A. Having a meeting. 

 B. Flying home. 

 C.Working on a project. 

3. What does the man suggest going to the park? 

 A. It's big. 

 B. It's quiet. 

 C. It's new. 

4.How does the woman sound? 

A. Annoyed 

B. Pleased. 

C. Puzzled. 

5.Where is the man's table? 

 A. Near the door. 

 B. By the window. 

 C. In the corner. 

第二节 （共15小题；每小题1.5分，满分22.5分）

听下面5段对话或独白。每段对话或独白后有几个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听每段对话或独白前，你将有时间阅读各个小题，每小题5秒钟；听完后，各小题将给出5秒钟的作答时间。每段对话或独白读两遍。

听第6段材料，回答第6、7题。

6.What are the speakers going to do tonight? 

 A. Eat out. 

 B. Go shopping. 

 C. Do sports. 

7.What is the probable relationship between the speakers? 

 A. Boss and secretary. 

 B. Hostess and guest. 

 C. Husband and wife. 

听第7段材料，回答第8、9题。

8. Why does the woman think June is the best time to move? 

 A. Their business is slow. 

 B. The weather is favorable. 

 C. It's easy to hire people. 

9.How will they handle the movie? 

 A. Finish it all at once. 

 B. Have the sales section go first. 

 C.Do one department at a time. 

听第8段材料，回答第10至12题。

10.What did Peter learn from his grandfather? 

 A. How to appreciate artworks. 

 B. How to deal with artists.

 C. How to run a museum. 

11. What did Peter do in Chicago? 

 A. He studied at a college. 

 B. He served in the army. 

 C. He worked in a [[gallery]]. 

12. Whose works did Peter like best?

 A. Rembrandi’s. 

 B. Botticelli’s. 

 C. Rubens’.

听第9段材料，回答第13至16题。

13.Where does the conversation take place? 

 A. At a library. 

 B. In a law firm. 

 C. On a train. 

14.By what time did John plan to finish his [[term]] paper? 

 A. March. 

 B. August. 

 C. October. 

15.Why did John quit his part-time job? 

 A. He had to catch up with his study. 

 B. He was offered a better one. 

 C. He got tired of it.

16.What is Susan the attitude to John’s problem? 

 A. Carefree. 

 B. Understanding. 

 C.Forgiving. 

听第10段材料，回答第17至20题。

17.What did the speaker do before the year 2012? 

 A. Fitness [[coach]]. 

 B. A [[chess]] player. 

 C. A marathon runner. 

18.Why was the 2016 Olympics important for the speaker? 

 A. He was [[motivated]] by Bolt. 

 B. He broke a world record. 

 C. He won fifth place. 

19. Which is the hardest for the speaker? 

 A.Getting over the [[injury]]. 

 B.Doing strength training. 

 C.Representing Botswana. 

20.What is the speaker mainly talking about? 

 A. His plan to go for the gold. 

 B. His experience on the [[track]]. 

 C. His love for his home country. 

第二都分阅读理解 (共两节.满分40分)

**A**

**Theatres and Entertainment**

**St David's Hall**

St David's Hall is the award winning National Concert Hall of Wales standing at the very heart of Cardiff’s entertainment centre. With an impressive 2,000-seat concert hall, St David's Hall is home to the annual Welsh Proms Cardiff. It presents live entertainment, including pop, rock, folk, jazz, musicals, dance, world music, films and classical music.

The Hayes, Cardiff CF10 1AH

www.stdavidshallcardiff.co.uk

**The Glee Club**

Every weekend this is "Wales" premier comedy club where having a great time is the order for both audiences and comedy stars alike. It is hard to name a comedy star who hasn’t been on the stage here. If you are looking for the best comedies on tour and brilliant live music, you should start here.

Mermaid Quay, Cardiff Bay, Cardiff CF10 SBZ

www.glee.co.uk/cardiff

**Sherman Cymru**

Sherman Cymru's theatre in the Cathays area of Cardiff reopened in February 2012. This special building is a place in which theatre is made and where children, artists, writers and anyone else have the opportunity to do creative things. Sherman Cymru is excited to present a packed programme of the very best theatre, dance, family shows and music from Wales and the rest of the world.

Senghennydd Road, Cardiff CF24 4YE

www.shermancymru. co.uk

**New Theatre**

The New Theatre has been the home of quality drama, musicals, dance and children's shows for more than 100 years. Presenting the best of the West End along with the pick of the UK's touring shows, the New Theatre is Cardiff's oldest surviving traditional theatre. Be sure to pay a visit as part of your stay in the city.

Park Place, CardiffCF10 3LN

www.newtheatrecardiff.co.uk

21. Where is the Welsh Proms Cardiff hosted?

A. At the New Theatre.          B. At the Glee Club.

C. At Sherman Cymru.           D.At St David's Hall.

22. What can people do at the Glee Club?

A. Watch musicals.              B. Enjoy comedies.

C. See family shows.             D. Do creative things.

23. Which website can you visit to learn about Cardiff's oldest surviving theatre?

A. [www.newthetrecardiff.co.uk](http://www.newthetrecardiff.co.uk)    B. www.shermancymru.co.uk

C. www.glee co.uk/cardiff        D. [www.stdavidshallcardiff.co.uik](http://www.stdavidshallcardiff.co.uik)

**B**

Goffin's cockatoos, a kind of small parrot native to Australia, have been shown to have similar shape-recognition abilities to a human two-year-old. Though not known to use tools in the wild, the birds have proved skillful at tool use while kept in the cage. In a recent experiment, cockatoos were presented with a box with a nut inside it. The clear front of the box had a “keyhole” in a geometric shape, and the birds were given five differently shaped “keys” to choose from. Inserting the correct “key” would let out the nut.

In humans, babies can put a round shape in a round hole from around one year of age, but it will be another year before they are able to do the same with less symmetrical (对称的) shape. This ability to recognize that a shape will need to be turned in a specific direction before it will fit is called an "allocentric frame of reference" In the experiment, Goffin's cockatoos were able to select the right tool for the job, in most cases, by visual recognition alone. Where trial-and-error was used, the cockatoos did better than monkeys in similar tests. This indicates that Goffin's cockatoos do indeed possess an allocentric frame of reference when moving objects in space, similar to two-year old babies.

The next step, according to the researchers, is to try and work out whether the cockatoos rely entirely on visual clues(线索), or also use a sense of touch in making their shape selections.

24. How did the cockatoos get the nut from the box in the experiment?

A. By following instructions.         B. By using a tool.

C. By turning the box around.        D. By removing the lid.

25. Which task can human one-year-olds most likely complete according to the text?

A. Using a key to unlock a door.       B. Telling parrots from other birds.

C. Putting a ball into a round hole.     D. Grouping toys of different shapes.

26. What does the follow-up test aim to find out about the cockatoos?

A. How far they are able to see.              B. How they [[track]] moving objects.

C. Whether they are smarter than monkeys.    D. Whether they use a sense of touch in the test

27. Which can be a suitable title for the text?

A. Cockatoos: Quick Error Checkers           B. Cockatoos: Independent Learners

C. Cockatoos: Clever Signal-Readers           D. Cockat0os: Skilful Shape-Sorters

**C**

As Ginni Bazlinton reached Antarctica, she found herself greeted by a group of little Gentoo penguins(企鹅) longing to say hello. These gentle, lovely gatekeepers welcomed her and kick-started what was to be a trip Ginni would never forget.

Ever since her childhood, Ginni, now, 71, has had a deep love for travel. Throughout her career (职业) as a professional dancer, she toured in the UK, but always longed to explore further. When she retired from dancing and her sons eventually flew the nest, she decided it was time to take the plunge.

After taking a degree at Chichester University in Related Arts, Ginni began to travel the world, eventually getting work teaching English in Japan and Chile. And it was in Chile she discovered she could get last-minute cheap deals on ships going to Antarctica from the islands off Tierra del Fuego, the southernmost tip of the South American mainland. "I just decided I wanted to go," she says ."I had no idea about what l'd find there and I wasn't nervous, I just wanted to do it. And I wanted to do it alone as I always prefer it that way."

In March 2008, Ginni boarded a ship with 48 passengers she'd never met before, to begin the journey towards Antarctica. "From seeing the wildlife to witnessing sunrises, the whole experience was amazing, Antarctica left an impression on me that no other place has," Ginni says. "I remember the first time I saw a humpback whale; it just rose out of the water like some prehistoric creature and I thought it was smiling at us. You could still hear the operatic sounds it was making underwater."

The realization that this is a precious land, to be respected by humans, was one of the biggest things that hit home to Ginni.

28. Which of the following best explains "take the plunge" 'underlined in paragraph2?

A. Try challenging things.           B. Take a degree.

C. Bring back lost memories.        D. Stick to a promise.

29. What made Ginni decide on the trip to Antarctica?

A. Lovely penguins.               B. Beautiful scenery.

C. A discount fare.                D.A friend's invitation.

30. What does Ginni think about Antarctica after the journey?

A. It could be a home for her.      B. It should be easily accessible.

C. It should be well preserved.     D. It needs to be fully introduced.

31. What is the text mainly about?

A. A childhood dream.             B. An unforgettable experience,

C. Sailing around the world.         D. Meeting animals in Antarctica.

**D**

Sometime in the early 1960s, a significant thing happened in Sydney, Australia. The city discovered its harbor. Then, one after another, Sydney discovered lots of things that were sort of there-broad parks, superb beaches, and a culturally diverse population. But it is the harbor that makes the city.

Andrew Reynolds, a cheerful fellow in his early 10s, pilots Sydney ferryboats for a living. I spent the whole morning shuttling back and forth across the harbor After our third run Andrew shut down the engine, and we went out separate ways -he for a lunch break. I to explore the city.

“I'll miss these old boats," he said as we parted

"How do you mean?" I asked.

"Oh, they're replacing them with catamarans. Catamarans are faster, but they're not so elegant, and they're not fun to pilot. But that's progress, I guess."

Everywhere in Sydney these days, change and progress are the watchwords(口号). and traditions are increasingly rare. Shirley Fitzgerald, the city's official historian, told me that in its rush to modernity in the 1970s, Sydney swept aside much of its past, including many of its finest buildings. "Sydney is confused about itself," she said. "We can't seem to make up our minds whether we want a modern city or a traditional one. I's a conflict that we aren't getting any better at resolving(解决)."

On the other hand, being young and old at the same time has its attractions. I considered this when I met a thoughtful young businessman named Anthony. "Many people say that we lack culture in this country," he told me. "What people forget is that the Italians, when they came to Australia, brought 2000 years of their culture, the Greeks some 3000 years, and the Chinese more sill. We've got a foundation built on ancient cultures but with a drive and dynamism of a young country. It's a pretty hard combination to beat."

He is right, but I can't help wishing they would keep those old ferries.

32. What is the first paragraph mainly about?

A. Sydney's striking architecture.            B. The cultural diversity of Sydney.

C. The key to Sydney's development.         D. Sydney's tourist attractions in the 1960s.

33. What can we learn about Andrew Reynolds?

A. He goes to work by boat.                B. He looks forward to a new life.

C. He pilot catamarans well.                D. He is attached to the old ferries.

34. What does Shirley Fitzgerald think of Sydney?

A. It is losing its traditions.                 B. It should speed up its progress.

C. It should expand its population           D. It is becoming more international.

35. Which statement will the author probably agree with?

A. A city can be young and old at the same time.

B. A city built on ancient cultures is more dynamic.

C. Modernity is usually achieved at the cost of elegance.

D. Compromise should be made between the local and the foreign.

七选五

Important Things to Know When Dining Out

Cultural dining [[etiquette]] (礼节) might surprise you with some of its important rules.  36  . Knowing some tips will help ensure that you have an enjoyable meal with friends or family - no matter where you are in the world.

**Chopstick Rules**

The way you handle chopsticks is important to avoid annoying your companions. When you put them down between bites, always put them down together so they are parallel with the edge of the table in front of you.  37 .

**Hands or Utensils(餐具)**

In India and the Middle East, it's considered very rude to eat with your left hand. People in France expect you to eat with a utensil in each hand.  38  , instead preferring to use their hands. In Chile, you may never touch any food with your fingers. People in Thailand generally use their forks only to push food onto their spoons.

**Making Requests**

39  . ln Portugal, this would be a serious mistake, because it shows the chef that you don't like their seasoning skills. Similarly, in Italy, never ask for extra cheese to add to your food.

Some of these cultural dining [[etiquette]] rules may seem random and strange, but they are important in various countries.  40  . the more comfortable you'll begin to feel with its foreign cultural practices.

A. The more friends you make in your lifeime

B. The more time you spend in any given country

C. Mexicans consider it inappropriate to eat with utensils

D. Don't get caught making an embarrassing mistake at a restaurant

E. It's a good sign for the chef if you make a mess around your plate

F. Never stick them upright in your food or cross them as you use them

G. It may seem like a simple request to ask for salt and pepper at a meal

You can tell a lot about a man by how he treats his dogs.

For many years, I enjoyed living with my dogs, Tilly and Chance. Their  41  was nearly enough to keep my loneliness at bay. Nearly, last year, I started dating, but with  42  . When I first dated Steve, I   43  he had d dog, Molly, and a cat, Flora. While I was  44  that he was an animal lover, I  45  that three dogs were perhaps too many, and my dogs might attack  46  , the cat.

The next week we  47  our dogs together. It was a hot day. When we [[pause|paused]] to catch our  48  , Steve got down on one knee. Was he proposing(求婚)? I liked him too, but so  49  ? He poured water from a bottle into his hand and offered it to my dogs.  50  , I began to fall for him.

We  51  to date, though neither of us brought up the future. And then in late November, Tilly had an operation on her  52  . I took the dogs out four times a day, and I worried that Tilly  53  climbing the stairs could reopen the wound. Then Steve  54  his house. All worked  55  . The three dogs formed a pack that, with coaching.  56  Flora’s space; Steve and I formed a good team  57  for Tilly. We made good housemates.

  A year later, much to my  58  , this man produced a little box with a ring and [[propose|proposed]] to me. He did not kneel(跪) down, nor did I  59   him to. That’s only for giving  60  to the dogs that brought us together.

41. A. ownership         B. membership          C. companionship         D. leadership

42. A. reservations        B. expectations         C. confidence             D.prejudice

43. A. feared             B. doubted            C. hoped                 D. learned

44. A. unsatisfied         B. amused             C. terrified                D. thrilled

45. A. predicted          B. worried             C. regretted               D. insisted

46. A. Flora              B. Chance             C. Molly                  D. Tilly

47. A. tied               B. walked             C. bathed                 D. fed

48. A. breath            B. balance             C. attention                D. imagination

49. A. calm              B. sure               C. soon                    D. real

50. A. By the way         B. In that case         C. By all means              D. In that moment

51. A. continued         B.decided             C.intended                 D.pretended

52. A.eye              B.tail                  C.ear                      D.leg

53. A.secretly           B.constantly            C.eventually                D.unwillingly 

54. A.left               B.sold                C.suggested                 D.searched 

55. A.late               B.hard                C.fine                     D.free 

56. A.emptied           B.respected            C.occupied                 D.discovered  

57. A.looking            B.caring               C.waiting                  D.calling 

58. A.delight            B.credit                C.interest                 D.disadvantage 

59. A.beg               B.trust                 C.need                   D.aid 

60. A.toys               B.awards               C.food                   D.water

第二节

阅读下面短文，在空白处填入1个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。

A visually-challenged man from Beijing recently hiked(徒步) 40 days to Xi'an, as a first step  61  (jouney) the Belt and Road route (路线) by foot.

On the 1,100-kilometer journey, the man Cao Shengkang,  62  lost his eyesight at the age of eight in a car accident, crossed 40 cities and countries in three provinces. [[Inspire|Inspired]] by the Bet and Road Forum for International Cooperation   63 (hold) in Beijing. Cao decided to cover the route by hiking as a [[tribute]] (致敬)to the ancient Silk Road.   64  friend of his, Wu Fan, volunteered to be his companion during the tip.

Cao and Wu also collected [[garbage]] along the road, in order to [[promote]] environmental  65  (protect). Cao believes this will make the hiking trip even more  66  (meaning). The two of them collected more than 1,000 plastic bottles along the 40-day journey.

In the last five years, Cao  67  (walk) through 34 counties in six continents, and in 2016, he reached the top of Kilimanjaro, Africa's  68  (high) mountain.

Now, Cao has started the second part of his dream to walk along the Belt and Road route. He few 4,700 kilometers  69   Xi’an to Kashgar on Sept.20,  70  (plan)to hike back to Xi'an in five months.

第四部分 写作

第一节 短文改错

My father often took me to his hospital when I was off my school. He showed me how his medical instruments was used. I often felt so closely to him. However, after I went to high school, somehow I become distant from him. I was unwilling talk with him and often disobeyed his rule of not stay out with my friends too late. The disagreement was too sharp that neither he nor I knew what to settle it. One day, he talked with me or hoped to [[mend]] our relations. With the efforts made by all sides, we began to understand each other better.

第二节 书面表达

你校将以六月八日世界海洋日为主题，举办英语征文比赛，请你写一篇短文投稿。内容包括：

1. 海洋的重要性；

2. 保护海洋的倡议。

注意：

1. 词数100左右；

2. 短文的题目和首句已为你写好。